---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: "OOP Done Right Through SOLID by Will Shaw with Free Food"
presenter: Will Shaw
date: '2018-07-19 19:00:00'
summary: |
    "OOP Done Right Through SOLID by Will Shaw with Free Food"
categories:
  - Presentations
tags:
  - php
  - events
---

We all want our code to be simple, but achieving simplicity can be very tricky. While Object Oriented Programming has helped numerous people wrap their heads around programming, it has also given many enough rope to tangle themselves in code.

In his book, Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns, and Practices, Robert C. Martin (Uncle Bob) talks about how to keep your code simple and easier to maintain by implementing S.O.L.I.D. Learn how these language agnostic principles make it easy for you to develop software that is easy to maintain and extend.

### About Will Shaw

Will Shaw has been a software and web develop since 2005 specializing in API and data ingestion. The majority of his programming experience has been in PHP and currently developing PHP modules to protect web servers from malicious code injection; he also has a few years experience in C# and Go.

## Pizza!

Pizza will be provided by Alex Clark with TEKsystems. Reach out to her with your career needs.

## Swag Alert

At the end of the presentation, one random lucky winner will win a free 1 year individual subscription to any single JetBrains Toolbox product. Choices includes PhpStorm, WebStorm, DataGrip, or others seen at https://www.jetbrains.com/products.html. Thanks JetBrains!

## Venue: Younique

Younique<br/>
3400 W. Mayflower Ave.<br/>
Lehi, UT 84043

How to get there:

Take I-15 to the SR-92 (Timpanogos Hwy.) exit. Go West on SR-92. Turn right on N. Thanksgiving Way (In front of the Maverick). At the T intersection, turn right to continue on N. Thanksgiving Way. Turn left on W. Mayflower Ave.

Enter through the front door and immediately turn left and the auditorium will be right in front of you.

## The After Party

We will be going to JCW's for the After Party. Come check it out with us.

Look forward to seeing everyone on Thursday!
