---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: "BDD API Tests with Gherkin and Behat"
presenter: Tom Anderson
date: '2019-08-15 19:00:00'
summary: |
    "BDD API Tests with Gherkin and Behat by Mark Niebergall"
categories:
  - Presentations
tags:
  - php
  - events
---

Given the prominence/rise of API-first development when developing web applications, projects then need to be tested beyond unit and functional tests. Authoring tests using the Gherkin language with Behat provides a way to achieve BDD to test APIs. We'll dive right into writing Gherkin, how to create your own scenarios in Gherkin, and how to hook those tests up with custom PHP test methods. See tests in action with live coding and live demos, including writing new tests. Leave excited to produce fully-tested APIs!

### About Mark Niebergall

Mark Niebergall is a security-minded PHP software engineer with over a decade of hands-on experience with PHP projects. He is the Utah PHP User Group Co-Organizer and often speaks at user groups and conferences. Mark has a Masters degree in MIS, is CSSLP and SSCP cybersecurity certified, and volunteers for (ISC)2 exam development. Mark enjoys going for long runs and teaching his five boys how to push buttons and use technology.

## Swag Alert

At the end of the presentation, one random lucky winner will win a free 1 year individual subscription to any single JetBrains Toolbox product. Choices includes PhpStorm, WebStorm, DataGrip, or others seen at https://www.jetbrains.com/products.html. Thanks JetBrains!

## Venue: Younique

Younique<br/>
3400 W. Mayflower Ave.<br/>
Lehi, UT 84043

How to get there:

Take I-15 to the SR-92 (Timpanogos Hwy.) exit. Go West on SR-92. Turn right on N. Thanksgiving Way (In front of the Maverick). At the T intersection, turn right to continue on N. Thanksgiving Way. Turn left on W. Mayflower Ave.

Enter through the front door and immediately turn left and the auditorium will be right in front of you.

## The After Party

We will be going to JCW's for the After Party. Come check it out with us.

Look forward to seeing everyone on Thursday!
